[Music]
hey how's it going Dave 2d here so this
is the 2018 Zenbook pro and this is a
device that gets updated pretty
regularly by Asus like every year
there's some kind of iterative change to
this thing but this year in 2018 they
brought something that was well I think
this is the first true innovative laptop
technology that I've seen in quite a
while so every year we're seeing like
things like thinner bezels better
materials lighter materials thinner
laptops which are cool and everything
but they don't really change the way
that we actually work with our laptops
right there they're nice upgrades and
stuff like that but this is different
this is a screen that's built into the
touchpad so you can run it as a screen
pad thing where you're running basically
Asus apps and an Asus interface so you
can pull it down and you'll see stuff
like your calendar a number pad so this
keyboard doesnt actually have number pad
but you can use the number pad feature
on the bottom thing a calculator and you
have your Spotify music player and you
have other apps that Asus can develop
and put onto this screen pad interface
now you can also run as a secondary
display which is actually pretty cool
so it essentially is a smaller secondary
screen that you can just kind of use to
drag-and-drop your programs or your
windows folders or whatever you would
use your secondary display for now Mac
like the Apple Mac books they have that
touch bar at the top and I said this in
my original review but the utility of
that strip like the actual functionality
of that strip is pretty limited and it's
highly dependent on the developer so you
need Adobe or whatever app you're using
you need those developers to create
functionality in that strip for the user
which is cool but it's not nearly as
functional or even practical as
something like this screen pad so I've
only been using this device for a couple
of days and my initial reaction was wow
that's really cool like you know what
can I do with it but then like the
secondary immediate reaction was that is
it really that useful because like your
viewing angle on this thing isn't ideal
right like if you're staring at your
screen like you normally would now you
have to glance down to look at this
secondary screen but after using for a
little bit it just it feels natural
not that it's like a better option than
looking straight if there are two
screens in front of you that would be
ideal but I mean that's never gonna
happen on a laptop anytime soon this
starts to feel useful after even a
couple hours of using it if you're
loading a premiere you can have like
different
it's down there if you want to watch
videos like twitch or YouTube you can
pop that window down there and it's just
in a position where you can kind of keep
tabs of whatever's going on on the
screen without actually having it take
the real estate of your regular screen
it's nice and you can run whatever
application you want in this so if you
have like a security camera footage or
if you're running a remote access
program like whatever you want you can
just make it work and that's the thing
like when I first saw this thing your
brain just goes right to that thing like
there's just something that you can
imagine something that you can think of
that has utility in this setup with that
MacBook Pro it was more like you had to
imagine it you kind of had to think
about you know how could I use this if
the developer did it right this it's
immediate it kind of it makes sense when
you stare at it so how's the rest of
this device it's well it's a Zen book
it's built pretty well it's not as well
built as a goodell XPS product or a
MacBook Pro but I like it the color it's
like this blue they also have different
colors I imagine but the one I'm looking
at is this kind of navy blue with copper
trim and it also has your standard
Zenbook texture to the metal now the
screen is a 4k panel 83% screen to body
ratio the color gamut is great 100%
Adobe RGB 100% srgb this is supposed to
be color calibrated at the factory with
Pantone certification it's a nice
looking screen it's not super bright
though it's bright but it doesn't
achieve the same kind of peak brightness
as a MacBook Pro and I keep bringing
them up as an example because I mean
this is a very very good product for
content creators and you can see the
similarities in terms of like product
category so the keyboard feels kind of
standard like your Zen Book Pro keyboard
slightly mushy ER keys than I would want
but good layout and good keyboard
overall the port selection is a little
bit weird so they have a micro SD I
really wish our device like this
especially because obviously geared
towards content creators that they would
include a full-size SD it's not there
you've got to use bas to thin about 3s
and an HDMI out so to get into the
inside it's like your standard Zen book
thing flip it over remove a bunch of
screws this one I've removed in advance
seem to pop it off here we go okay so
first thing I noticed was that there's
only two heat pipes and because it's
running some pretty powerful hardware I
was hoping there'd be more turns out
there's a third heat pipe that runs
underneath the motherboard so on the
backside of it that'll help cool this
down the i9 is a beast it's running on
gtx 10:50 TI and the
ponens in here are cooled by two fans
that are supposedly upgraded from the
previous generation so they're supposed
to have like thermoformed plastic and
just have better air flow and stuff I
haven't be able to test it out
thoroughly because this is an
engineering unit I haven't been able to
run proper benchmarks but the
preliminary results are good this
thing's not throttling but the
temperatures are a little warm hopefully
it does get better before it goes into
retail again this is just an engineering
sample so the RAM is soldered onto the
board I really don't like that on a
device like this at which you could just
kind of upgrade it when you want it it
only comes out up to 16 gigs of ram from
the factory and it's just baked right
onto the board so that's not the best
thing the SSD and the Wi-Fi card can be
replaced so the battery's down here I
haven't really done battery tests on
this because it's just there's probably
ton of software that's gonna go into the
retail version that's not on here yet
the speakers they're good and they've
always been good Zenbook pro speakers
have always been one of the better ones
on the market
and yeah I feel like this is gonna
change the way that some people use
their laptops I love that little screen
it's useful for a lot of people it's
obviously not for everyone the best part
is that the functionality of the
touchpad or the trackpad itself doesn't
get reduced like it feels exactly the
same as a regular trackpad like you
wouldn't be able to tell the difference
in fact if you turn off the screen it
just looks like a black trackpad it's
got that smooth textured glass with good
tracking the trackpad is sunken in a
little bit more than your average
trackpad but you don't notice that when
you're using it I don't know it's really
cool to me what do you guys think like
do you think you could make use of it
obviously you could watch like movies
and stuff on this but aside from that
like do you guys think you would use
something like this if you had access to
it on your trackpad like do you find a
gimmicky do you find legit I don't know
now in terms of battery life I don't
know how this affects it again I'll have
to test this in the future but yeah kind
of like an early look at what I could
consider one of the more innovative
pieces of tech I've seen in laptop store
this year ok hope you guys enjoyed this
video thumbs if you liked it
subs you loved it see you guys next time